In the beginning, I was undecisive on whether to make a web portfolio about my computer science career or my art hobby's career. Given that each option would warrent different design philosophies; For the art portfolio, I would have to focus on making it as visually appealing as possible, displaying my artwork as well as commision work in the past, while for the computer science porfolio, I would have to make it look professional, add a biography, list of qualifications and make it and link past programming projects.
I ended up choosing to go with a computer science web portfolio because right now I am trying to find a job/internship in the field and it would be both relevant and helpful to revamp my old computer science portfolio with a more modernised one.
To this goal, I decided to add 4 pages; an 'About Me' page which would serve as the home page and where users can find information about my background and skills; A 'Projects' page that would link to past personal projects relevant to my skills; A 'Contact Me' page with links to my relevent social media; and lastly a 'Charity Work' to showcase irrelevant work experience that I've done for charity. The reason why I decided to include is deliberate however.
To make it seem professional as well as engaging, I decided to make all the buttons responsive to the user's mouse pointer hovering over them either by bopping up a little in order to keep the user engaged; psychologically the human brain derives satisfaction from seeing cause-and-effect so I implemented this by making the cause the user's mouse pointer and the effect the responsive, bopping animation for the buttons.
My 'About Me' page I decided to keep brief and short, showcasing only a brief description of where I am from and listing the programming languages I am proficient in. This is to keep the relevant information straight to the point for recruiters.
My 'Projects' page is a gallery-style display of links inside "cards" that have show the name of the project, a brief description and a link to its corresponding github repository when clicked on. Right now most of projects are set to private because I am performing quality assurance tests and polish before I make them public again, so for now they simply link to my GitHub page but ideally they should link to their individuals repositories.
My 'Contact Me' page is a brief page with just icons of the social media platforms I've included, where once the user hovers their mouse, shows the full handle and once clicked will take them to the actual page. This is to make it as easy and straight forward as possible for recruiters to contact me in their desired platform.
Since I've done a bit of charity work/community service in the past, I've decided to add it to my portfolio so that recruiters can get an idea of my ethics/moral values. Ideally I would include pictures of me participating in such work however so far I've not been able to locate them, so that page simply has a description and time of the type of work I did.
Since I am also fluent in Spanish to the extent where I can use it proficiently in a professional setting, I decided to add a button that lets the user translate my portfolio website to Spanish to cater to Spanish-speaking recruiters. This would allow me to stand out in the U.S. market to any billingual companies as well as make it easier for Puerto Rican companies to see how I would fit into their company culture.
